# Civic Participation Network
A CivicTech innovation that creates civic opportunities for the participating citizenry to engage with centers of power. Formulating frames and modalities grounded in participation theory to put forth innovative democratic approaches and tools to help citizens make their voices heard and publicly exchange views on all areas of sustainable devlopment. The platform is geared towards countering disinformation and other forms of interference in the democratic debate, empowering citizens to make informed decisions by helping them identify disinformation and promoting media and civic literacy, with main stream media involvement; engaging citizens and communities in discussions and action related to a wide range of sustainable goals.

## Participation Models and Frameworks built around civic literacy
This is to borrow heavilty from participation theory in formulating participation models and frameworks but also civic literacy to boost civic awareness on rights and values and increasing their degree of engagement in society enabling people to deepen their knowledge and better understand of democratic institutions and policies strengthening democratic participation, with a special focus on inclusion of younger and older people, women in all their diversity, and people with disabilities; reaching those citizens not active in civic participation in their everyday life;
This to go against models where the administrator as the expert, makes rational, valuefree decisions. Citizens are clients who defer to the expertise of the professional bureaucrat. As clients, citizens are dependent on the bureaucracy. With this model citizens are thought to lack the knowledge and expertise to be involved in decision making so they provide input, when asked, but otherwise quietly accept the actions and decisions of the administrative experts.
This is to champion digital inclusivity by conceptualizing a proxy representation model where those who are unable to access, operate or use digital tools can be helped to navigate these technologies by using helper tools or personnel. 

Civic literacy centers on the belief that an aware, informed and engaged citizens are society's greatest assets for solving the most critical problems in our communities. The adoption of state of the art technology and knowledge across sectors would provide powerful new tools for democratic engagement and problem solving. This is to embrace learning through experimentation, network building and knowledge sharing to advance the civic potential of people and technology.

## Citizen as co-producer/Administrator co-producer: 
reflects the ideal of co-production and collaboration where citizens and administrators collaborate with one another to solve problems and get things done. This is opposed to models where citizens are thought to lack the knowledge and expertise to be involved in decision making so they provide input, when asked, but otherwise quietly accept the actions and decisions of the administrative experts. Also administrators serve and empower citizens as they manage public organizations and implement public policy. Public servants act as facilitators and partners rather than experts.

## Questions that the Citizen Participation Networks is Supposed to answer
What prompts one community, to be open, inclusive, and deliberative in their interactions with the public, while other communities, opt to exclude citizens as much as possible? What characteristics are present in the open and deliberative environments that are not present in the closed environments? why and how citizens are included in the deliberative process. Why do some public administrators embrace the idea of including citizens? 

## Blockchain Decentralized networking participation model
The frames and modalities will adapt a decentralized protocol stack that implements current decentralized technologies like Blockchain to model physical realities of civic participation. Blockchain Decentralized networking platforms built on blockchain protocols/platforms that enable the development of applications to drive the privacy-focused era of user engagement.
With decentralization in place, the manipulation for an entity’s gains fades out, resulting in a better user experience. Here no one, in particular, can take core decisions as most of the dapps follow a community first approach

## The Citizen Participation dAPP
Blockchain Decentralized networking platforms built on blockchain protocols/platforms that enable the development of applications. Because Blockchain social media networks are decentralized, there is no central proprietary authority in charge of all data. Instead, the data is distributed across servers at each network node in a homogeneous and decentralized manner. By keeping user content on a blockchain’s immutable ledger, social media ventures can avoid censorship. They can also provide users control over incentives and reputation points
The dAPP for the citizen participation network will also feature anti censorship tools. These are to circumvent blockage, privacy protection and outage torrolence. 
 
## Lingual inclusivity
Using natural language processing to provide multiple-lingual deliberations among a wide spectrum of participants 
